Add documentation - Getting Started : Add new Controller (#1824)
kuzzleio/kuzzle: doc/2/guides/getting-started/6-add-new-controller/index.md

title: Add new Controller
description: Extends Kuzzle API with new actions
order: 600
---

# Add new Controller

The Kuzzle API is composed of actions grouped in controllers.  
A controller is a logical container that groups several actions together.

Each action receives a Kuzzle request in parameter and is in charge of returning a result which will be transmitted in the response.

## Register a new Controller

We are going to modify the `app.ts` file to register a controller to expose new API actions.

For this, we need to use the [Backend.controller.register](/core/2/some-link) method.

This method takes the controller name and a [ControllerDefinition](/core/2/api/some-link) which defines the controller actions:

```js
app.controller.register('greeting', {
  actions: {
    sayHello: {
      handler: async request => {
        return `Hello, ${request.input.args.name}`;
      }
    }
  }
})
```

The code above will register a `greeting` controller with a `sayHello` action.  

> This action will use the `name` argument from the request and return a string.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This action uses the `name` argument from the request and returns a string.  
```

::: info

> Kuzzle will generate a default HTTP route of the following format if none are provided:   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kuzzle will generate a default HTTP route of the following format if none is provided:   
```

`GET /_/<controller-name>/<action-name>`  
Controller name and action name will be converted to `kebab-case`.
:::

We can now test our new action:

:::: tabs
::: tab Kourou

```bash
$ kourou greeting:sayHello --arg name=Yagmur
[ℹ] Unknown command "greeting:sayHello", fallback to API method
 
 🚀 Kourou - Executes an API query.
 
 [ℹ] Connecting to http://localhost:7512 ...
 "Hello, Yagmur"
 [✔] Successfully executed "greeting:sayHello"
```

:::
::: tab HTTP

```bash
$ curl "http://localhost:7512/_/greeting/say-hello?name=Yagmur&pretty"
{
  "requestId": "383e016a-447e-4138-aa53-c07c9fd5c923",
  "status": 200,
  "error": null,
  "controller": "greeting",
  "action": "sayHello",
  "collection": null,
  "index": null,
  "volatile": null,

>   "result": "Hello, undefined"

Reviewer: So... I guess the controller didn't receive the `name` argument? :thinking:

Author: Ouuups :sweat_smile:
